# Detecting_Blocking_WebAttacks_using_WebApplicationFirewall

A web application firewall is a special type of application firewall that applies specifically to web applications. It is deployed in front of web applications and analyzes bi-directional web-based (HTTP) traffic - detecting and blocking anything malicious. The OWASP provides a broad technical definition for a WAF as “a security solution on the web application level which - from a technical point of view - does not depend on the application itself. WAF can be a virtual or physical appliance that prevents vulnerabilities in web applications from being exploited by outside threats. These vulnerabilities may be because the application itself is a legacy type or it was insufficiently coded by design. Therefore, securing web applications is becoming one of the most important things you need to pay attention as an end-user or as a business user. It inspects the application layer so it usually comes as an appliance type or as a server module. It generally identifies and blocks common web attacks such as cross-site scripting (XSS) and SQL Injection by customizing the rules. Therefore, the customization of its rules is very significant and requires high maintenance. There are many ways to protect a web application, such as implementing a secure coding practice, managing secure configuration, performing vulnerability assessment and deploying a web application firewall, but there is no silver bullet that it will protect the application entirely. Using a web application firewall is just one method that helps to protect such an application. This technology is relatively new comparing with other technologies, but it can become a powerful solution when you configure and use it properly .In this paper, Modsecurity is going to be used to demonstrate how to secure a web application using a WAF. Modsecurity protects web applications from a range of web attacks and allows monitoring of HTTP traffic with not many interference in the existing infrastructure. It is an open source WAF module for the Apache web server and it has been maintained by SpiderLabs , Trustwave. Since this is an open source product, it comes with free license and many users contribute to the community to improve and maintain the product A WAF is not a tool that just blocks the malicious activity on the application layer. It can also be used to analyze and detect malicious traffic that attacks your critical application .Therefore, this will show how to analyze common web attacks by using WAF’s detection and logging ability along with the Apache server’s logging ability.
